Let us write programs for displaying various patterns using for loop already you
have seen this code.
So instead of displaying i and j values I'll just remove this and even say cout  star than space and
close the one.
So Star and space will be displayed.
And you know this cout will move to next line after every row.
Let us show this.
I'm getting a square patterns of three stars each.
So I just increase this to five and let us run again.
So I'm getting a square pattern of five by five stars.
Now here I'll make a small change.
J is starting from 1 and j is less than or equal to 5.
I will say less than or equal to i
So I initially one so it is repeated for innner for loop is repeated for only one time.
Then next two times then three time so whatever the value of i is it will be for that many times not always
five times what pattern we get
OK.
I'm getting a triangle.
There's one star and two stars next lined and three stars and next line and so on.
Now instead of this if I say five minus i.
Then let us see what happens.
I'm getting this triangle but I'm getting just four so I should write five minus I plus one so I'll be
getting it 5 4 3 2 1 so let me change this 5 minus i.
I plus one
so I got a triangle of stars right.
So I got two shapes you have seen, now i will make some changes and display  this star based on condition.
So just watch this one.
So now it is a square.
This is exactly the first one.
That is square of size 5.
But now here I will write if I plus j is less than 5 then displayed this star.
Otherwise else
cout just give two spaces.
That's it.
So I have made changes here.
I'm not displaying star every time.
I'm also displaying a space when this condition is true it will be showing star.
Otherwise it will be showing space.
Just watch what happens.
I'll change this condition.
That is I plus j is greater than 5.
Then display this
see i got a right bottom side of our triangle.
If I say I is less than j then only print  this one.
Let us see what you get.
I got only a few stars.
One started iS less so I will say I is less than or equal to j
now on the top right side of a triangle.
So initially when you saw that this was from 5 to 5 so I was getting a square of 5 by 5.
Now these locations are filled with spaces.
These are all spaces and these are stars so it is displaying stars or spaces depending on the condition met.
So in this way you can play around with these i & j.
values and you can get different stars and this will help you to develop your logic so
different designs you can make using stars or even you can use number.